sarracenia/doc/Dev.rst, before:


====================================
 MetPX-Sarracenia Developer's Guide
====================================

:version: @Version@ 
:date: @Date@

.. contents::


Tools you Need
--------------

To hack on the sarracenia source, you need:
 - python3.  The application is developed in and depends on python versions > 3.
 - some python-amqp bindings (like python-amqplib for current implementations)
 - a bunch of other modules indicated in the dependencies (setup.py or debian/control)
 - paramiko. For SSH/SFTP support you need to install the python-paramiko package (which
   works with python3 even though the documentation says it is for python2.)
 - (soon?) watchdog ( https://pypi.python.org/pypi/watchdog ) not available as a .deb yet. 
   used to encapsulate directory watching for sr_watch.
 - git. in order to download the source from the sf.net repository.
 - a running rabbitmq broker (if you want to actually run any code.)


after you have cloned the source code::

    git clone git://git.code.sf.net/p/metpx/git metpx-git
    cd metpx-git/sarracenia. 

The rest of the Guide assumes you are there.

Documentation
-------------

The development process is to write up what one intends to to or have done into
a restructured text file in the doc/design sub-directory.  The files there provide
a basis for discussion.  Ideally, the information there acts as a pieces which can 
be edited into documentation for the features as they are implemented.

Each new component sr\_whatever, should have relevant man pages implemented.  
The Guides should also be revised.  The form of the documentation is still under
discussion.  Current thinking:

- Install.rst (Installation)
- Dev.rst (this guide for developers)
- Subscribers.rst (a guide for how to read data from a pump.)
- Source.rst (a guide for those publishing data to a pump.)
- Admin.rst (an Admininistrator´s Guide.)

When there are new sections, they should likely start out in design/ and after
review, graduate into the main documentation.


Development
-----------

Development occurs on the master branch, which may be in any state at any given
time, and should note be relied upon.  From time to time releases are tagged, and
maintenance results in a branch.  Releases are classified as follows:

Alpha
  snapshot releases taken directly from master, with no other qualitative guarantees.
  no gurantee of functionality, some components may be partially implemented, some
  breakage may occur.
  no bug-fixes, issues addressed by subsequent version.
  Often used for early end-to-end testing (rather than installing custom from tree on 
  each test machine.)

Beta
  Feature Complete for a given release.  Components in their final form for this release.
  Documentation exists in at least one language.
  All previously known release block bugs addressed. 
  no bug-fixes, issues addressed by subsequent version.

RC - Release Candidate.
  implies it has gone through beta to identify and address major issues.
  Translated documentation available.
  no bug-fixes, issues addressed by subsequent version.

Final versions have no suffix and are considered stable and supported.
Stable should receive bug-fixes if necessary from time to time.
One can build python wheels, or debian packages for local testing purposes
during development.

.. Note:: If you change default settings for exchanges / queues  as 
      part of a new version, keep in mind that all components have to use 
      the same settings or the bind will fail, and they will not be able 
      to connect.  If a new version declares different queue or exchange 
      settings, then the simplest means of upgrading (preserving data) is to 
      drain the queues prior to upgrading, for example by 

      setting, the access to the resource will not be granted by the server.
      (??? perhaps there is a way to get access to a resource as is... no declare)
      (??? should be investigated)

      Changing the default require the removal and recreation of the resource.
      This has a major impact on processes...


Python Wheel
~~~~~~~~~~~~

For testing and development::

    python3 setup.py bdist_wheel 

should build a wheel in the dist sub-directory.


Debian/Ubuntu
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This process builds a local .deb in the parent directory using standard debian mechanisms.
- check the **build-depends** line in *debian/control* for dependencies that might be needed to build from source.
- The following steps will build sarracenia but not sign the changes or the source package::

    cd metpx/sarracenia
    debuild -uc -us
    sudo dpkg -i ../<the package just built>




Testing
~~~~~~~

Before releasing, as a Quality Assurance measure one should run all available self-tests.
It is assumed that the specific changes in the code have already been unit
tested.  Please add self-tests as appropriate to this process to reflect the new ones.

.. note::

  FIXME: 'Testing' section extracted from design/releasing_process.rst... it needs testing ;-)
  It was built with internal services in minde and specific development support configuration.
  work is in progress to have a self-contained localhost self-test environment.

Assumption: test environment is a linux PC, either a laptop/desktop, or a server on which one
can start a browser.

0 - Install servers on localhost

Install a minimal localhost broker, configure test users.
with credentials stored for localhost::
   
   sudo apt-get install rabbitmq-server
   sudo rabbitmq-plugins enable rabbitmq_management
   echo "amqp://bunnymaster:MaestroDelConejito@localhost/" >>~/.config/sarra/credentials.conf
   echo "amqp://tsource:TestSOUrCs@localhost/" >>~/.config/sarra/credentials.conf
   echo "amqp://tsub:TestSUBSCibe@localhost/" >>~/.config/sarra/credentials.conf
   echo "amqp://tfeed:TestFeeding@localhost/" >>~/.config/sarra/credentials.conf

   cat >~/.config/sarra/default.conf <<EOT
   cluster localhost
   admin amqp://bunnymaster@localhost/
   feeder amqp://tfeed@localhost/
   role source tsource
   role subscribe tsub
   EOT

   sudo rabbitmqctl delete_user guest
   sudo rabbitmqctl add_user bunnymaster MaestroDelConejito
   sudo rabbitmqctl set_permissions bunnymaster ".*" ".*" ".*"
   sudo rabbitmqctl set_user_tags bunnymaster administrator
   cd /usr/local/bin
   sudo wget http://localhost:15672/cli/rabbitmqadmin 
   chmod 755 rabbbitmqadmin
   sr_audit --users foreground

   sudo rabbitmqctl change_password tsource TestSOUrCs
   sudo rabbitmqctl change_password tsub TestSUBSCibe
   sudo rabbitmqctl change_password tfeed TestFeeding
   
.. Note::

   Please use other passwords in credentials for your configuration, just in case.
   Passwords are not to be hard coded in self test suite.
   The users bunnymaster, tsource, tsub, and tfeed are to be used for running tests


The idea here is to use tsource, tsub, and tfeed as broker accounts for all
self-test operations, and store the credentials in the normal credentials.conf file.
No passwords or key files should be stored in the source tree, as part of a self-test
suite.

Perhaps in a separate window if you want to see output separately, a log message is 
printed for each GET the server answers. the setup script starts a trivial web server,
and defines some fixed test clients that will be used during self-tests::

   cd sarracenia/test
   . ./setup.sh

setup.sh will install configuration files for:

- two sr_shovel configurations to copy messages from from dd.weather.gc.ca
- an sr_winnow to remove duplicates from the shovelled sources.
- an sr_sarra to read the winnow output, and post fills mirrored on the trivial web server.
- an sr_subscribe to down load the files from the local server.

and starts this network of configurations running.

1- rerun basic self test::

   ./some_self_tests.sh

.. notes::

   FIXME: so far got first sr_credentials, sr_config, sr_consumer, sr_subscribe, sr_instances PASS.
   FIXME: working on sr_poster.
   FIXME: many tests refer to sites only accessible within EC zone.


2- Run integration tests.
   
   The check.sh script reads the log files of all the components started, and compares the number
   of messages, looking for a correspondence within +- 10%   It takes a few minutes for the 
   configuration to run before there is enough data to do the proper measurements.

   ./check.sh

   sample output::

   blacklab% ./check.sh
   initial sample building sample size 3421 need at least 1000 
   test 1: SUCCESS, shovel1 (3421) reading the same as shovel2 (3421) does
   test 2: SUCCESS, winnow (6841) reading double what sarra (3421) does
   test 3: SUCCESS, subscribe (3421) has the same number of items as sarra (3421)
   test 4: SUCCESS, subscribe (3421) has the same number of items as shovel1 (3421)
   blacklab% 



3- rerun and check results for

   test_sr_post.sh
   test_sr_watch.sh
   test_sr_subscribe.sh
   test_sr_sarra.sh

   Note :  some tests error ...
           in test_sr_sarra.sh ... there are lots of ftp/sftp connections
           so some config settings like sshd_config (MaxStartups 500) might
           might be requiered to have successfull tests.

   When done testing, run::
 
    . ./cleanup.sh
   
   which will kill the running web server.

4- making a local wheel and installing on your workstation

   in the git clone tree ...    metpx-git/sarracenia
   create a wheel by running

   python3 setup.py bdist_wheel

   it creates a wheel package under  dist/metpx*.whl
   than as root  install that new package

   pip3 install --upgrade ...<path>/dist/metpx*.whl



5- Have a sarracenia environment in your home...
   with copies of some of our operational settings ...
   correctly modified not to impact the operations.
   (like no "delete True"  etc...)
   And other sarra configurations ... try running sarra.

   sr start

   Watch for errors... check in logs... etc.

   Should you see things that are suspicious 
   
       a) stop the process
       b) run the process in debug and foreground
          <sr_program> --debug <configname> foreground
       c) check interactive output for any hint



Building a Release
------------------

MetPX-Sarracenia is distributed in a few different ways, and each has it's own build process.
Packaged releases are always preferable to one off builds, because they are reproducible.

When development requires testing across a wide range of servers, it is preferred to make an alpha
release, rather than installing one off packages.  So the preferred mechanisms is to build
the ubuntu and pip packages at least, and install on the test machines using the relevant public
repositories.
 
To publish a release one needs to:

  - Set the version.
  - upload the release to pypi.org so that installation with pip succeeds.
  - upload the release to launchpad.org, so that the installation of debian packages
    using the repository succeeds.
  - upload the packages to sourceforge for other users to download the package directly
  - upload updated documentation to sourceforge.


Versioning Scheme
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Each release will be versioned as ``<protocol version>.<YY>.<MM> <segment>``

Where:

- **protocol version** is the message version. In Sarra messages, they are all prefixed with v02 (at the moment).
- **YY** is the last two digits of the year of the initial release in the series.
- **MM** is a TWO digit month number i.e. for April: 04.
- **segment** is what would be used within a series. 
  from pep0440:
  X.YaN   # Alpha release
  X.YbN   # Beta release
  X.YrcN  # Release Candidate
  X.Y     # Final release

Example: 

The first alpha release in January 2016 would be versioned as ``metpx-sarracenia-2.16.01a01``


Setting the Version
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Edit ``sarra/__init__.py`` manually and set the version number.
* Run ```release.sh```
* Edit ``sarra/__init__.py`` manually and add ``+`` to the end of the version number to differentiate continuing development on the master branch from the last release.

Each new release triggers a *tag* in the git repository.

Example::

    git tag -a sarra-v2.16.01a01 -m "release 2.16.01a01"
    
A convenience script has been created to automate the release process. Simply run ``release.sh`` and it will guide you in cutting a new release.


.. note::
   FIXME:  the adding of the + to master makes the current tree not the release,
   so need to expclicitly checkout the tag... no?  how does one 
   Can someone correct this:

   git checkout -t sarra-v2.16.01a01  ?


PyPi
~~~~

Assuming pypi upload credentials are in place, uploading a new release is a one liner::

    python3 setup.py bdist_wheel upload  

Note that the same version can never be uploaded twice. 

A convenience script has been created to build and publish the *wheel* file. Simply run ``publish-to-pypi.sh`` and it will guide you in that.

.. note:: 
   when uploading pre-release packages (alpha,beta, or RC) PYpi does not serve those to users by default.
   For seamless upgrade, early testers need to do supply the --pre switch to pip:

   pip3 install --upgrade --pre metpx-sarracenia

   on occasion you may wish to install a specific version:

   pip3 install --upgrade metpx-sarracenia==2.16.03a9



Launchpad
~~~~~~~~~

The process for publishing packages to Launchpad ( https://launchpad.net/~ssc-hpc-chp-spc ) involves a more complex set of steps, and so the convenience script ``publish-to-launchpad.sh`` will be the easiest way to do that. Currently the only supported releases are **trusty** and **xenial**. So the command used is::

    publish-to-launchpad.sh sarra-v2.15.12a1 trusty xenial


However, the steps below are a summary of what the script does:

- for each distribution (precise, trusty, etc) update ``debian/changelog`` to reflect the distribution
- build the source package using::

    debuild -S -uc -us
    
- sign the ``.changes`` and ``.dsc`` files::

    debsign -k<key id> <.changes file>

- upload to launchpad::

    dput ppa:ssc-hpc-chp-spc/metpx-<dist> <.changes file>
    
**Note:** The GPG keys associated with the launchpad account must be configured in order to do the last two steps.




Updating The Project Website
----------------------------

The MetPX website is built from the documentation in the various modules in the project. It builds using all **.rst** files found in **sarracenia/doc** as well as *some* of the **.rst** files found in **sundew/doc**.

Building Locally
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In order to build the HTML pages, the following software must be available on your workstation:

* `dia <http://dia-installer.de/>`_
* `docutils <http://docutils.sourceforge.net/>`_
* `groff <http://www.gnu.org/software/groff/>`_

From a command shell::

  cd site
  make


Updating The Website
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To publish the site to sourceforge (updating metpx.sourceforge.net), you must have a sourceforge.net account
and have the required permissions to modify the site.

From a shell, run::

  make SFUSER=myuser deploy 



Development Environment
-----------------------


Local Python 
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Working with a non-packaged version:

notes::

    python3 setup.py build
    python3 setup.py install


Windows
~~~~~~~

Install winpython from github.io version 3.4 or higher.  Then use pip to install from PyPI.



Conventions
-----------

Below are some coding practices that are meant to guide developers when contributing to sarracenia.
They are not hard and fast rules, just guidance.


When to Log
-----------

sr_log(7) messages should be emitted to indicate final disposition of the data itself, not 
any notifications or log messages (don't log log messages, it becomes an infinite loop!)
For debugging and other information, the local log file is used.  For example, sr_shovel does 
not emit any sr_log(7) messages, because no data is transferred, only messages.



Where to Put Option Documentation
---------------------------------

Most options are documented in sr_config(7), because they are common to many components.  Any options used 
by multiple components should be documented there.  Options which are unique to a single component, should
be documented in the man page for that component.

Where the default value for an option varies among components, sr_config(7) should indicate only that 
the default varies.  Each component's man page should indicate the option's default for that component.


Adding Checksum Algorithms
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To add a checksum algorithm, need to add a new class to sr_util.py, and then modify sr_config.py
to associate it with a label.  Reading of sr_util.py makes this pretty clear.
Each algorithm needs:
 - an initializer (sets it to 0)
 - an algorithm selector.
 - an updater to add info of a given block to an existing sum,
 - get_value to obtain the hash (usually after all blocks have updated it)

These are called by the code as files are downloaded, so that processing and transfer are overlapped.

For example, to add SHA-2 encoding::

  from hashlib import sha256

  class checksum_s(object):
      """
      checksum the entire contents of the file, using SHA256.
      """
      def __init__(self):
          self.value = '0'

      def get_value(self):
          self.value = self.filehash.hexdigest()
          return self.value

      def update(self,chunk):
          self.filehash.update(chunk)

      def set_path(self,path):
          self.filehash = sha256()

Then in sr_config.py, in the set_sumalgo routine::

      if flgs == 's':
          self.sumalgo = checksum_s()

Might want to add 's' to the list of valid sums in validate_sum( as well.

It is planned for a future version to make a plugin interface for this so that adding checksums
becomes an application programmer activity.

Commit message:

Working on test_sr_post.sh... not good yet, but closer to working than before.

sarracenia/doc/Dev.rst, after:


====================================
 MetPX-Sarracenia Developer's Guide
====================================

:version: @Version@ 
:date: @Date@

.. contents::


Tools you Need
--------------

To hack on the sarracenia source, you need:
 - python3.  The application is developed in and depends on python versions > 3.
 - some python-amqp bindings (like python-amqplib for current implementations)
 - a bunch of other modules indicated in the dependencies (setup.py or debian/control)
 - paramiko. For SSH/SFTP support you need to install the python-paramiko package (which
   works with python3 even though the documentation says it is for python2.)
 - (soon?) watchdog ( https://pypi.python.org/pypi/watchdog ) not available as a .deb yet. 
   used to encapsulate directory watching for sr_watch.
 - git. in order to download the source from the sf.net repository.
 - a running rabbitmq broker (if you want to actually run any code.)


after you have cloned the source code::

    git clone git://git.code.sf.net/p/metpx/git metpx-git
    cd metpx-git/sarracenia. 

The rest of the Guide assumes you are there.

Documentation
-------------

The development process is to write up what one intends to to or have done into
a restructured text file in the doc/design sub-directory.  The files there provide
a basis for discussion.  Ideally, the information there acts as a pieces which can 
be edited into documentation for the features as they are implemented.

Each new component sr\_whatever, should have relevant man pages implemented.  
The Guides should also be revised.  The form of the documentation is still under
discussion.  Current thinking:

- Install.rst (Installation)
- Dev.rst (this guide for developers)
- Subscribers.rst (a guide for how to read data from a pump.)
- Source.rst (a guide for those publishing data to a pump.)
- Admin.rst (an Admininistrator´s Guide.)

When there are new sections, they should likely start out in design/ and after
review, graduate into the main documentation.


Development
-----------

Development occurs on the master branch, which may be in any state at any given
time, and should note be relied upon.  From time to time releases are tagged, and
maintenance results in a branch.  Releases are classified as follows:

Alpha
  snapshot releases taken directly from master, with no other qualitative guarantees.
  no gurantee of functionality, some components may be partially implemented, some
  breakage may occur.
  no bug-fixes, issues addressed by subsequent version.
  Often used for early end-to-end testing (rather than installing custom from tree on 
  each test machine.)

Beta
  Feature Complete for a given release.  Components in their final form for this release.
  Documentation exists in at least one language.
  All previously known release block bugs addressed. 
  no bug-fixes, issues addressed by subsequent version.

RC - Release Candidate.
  implies it has gone through beta to identify and address major issues.
  Translated documentation available.
  no bug-fixes, issues addressed by subsequent version.

Final versions have no suffix and are considered stable and supported.
Stable should receive bug-fixes if necessary from time to time.
One can build python wheels, or debian packages for local testing purposes
during development.

.. Note:: If you change default settings for exchanges / queues  as 
      part of a new version, keep in mind that all components have to use 
      the same settings or the bind will fail, and they will not be able 
      to connect.  If a new version declares different queue or exchange 
      settings, then the simplest means of upgrading (preserving data) is to 
      drain the queues prior to upgrading, for example by 

      setting, the access to the resource will not be granted by the server.
      (??? perhaps there is a way to get access to a resource as is... no declare)
      (??? should be investigated)

      Changing the default require the removal and recreation of the resource.
      This has a major impact on processes...


Python Wheel
~~~~~~~~~~~~

For testing and development::

    python3 setup.py bdist_wheel 

should build a wheel in the dist sub-directory.


Debian/Ubuntu
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This process builds a local .deb in the parent directory using standard debian mechanisms.
- check the **build-depends** line in *debian/control* for dependencies that might be needed to build from source.
- The following steps will build sarracenia but not sign the changes or the source package::

    cd metpx/sarracenia
    debuild -uc -us
    sudo dpkg -i ../<the package just built>




Testing
~~~~~~~

Before releasing, as a Quality Assurance measure one should run all available self-tests.
It is assumed that the specific changes in the code have already been unit
tested.  Please add self-tests as appropriate to this process to reflect the new ones.

.. note::

  FIXME: 'Testing' section extracted from design/releasing_process.rst... it needs testing ;-)
  It was built with internal services in minde and specific development support configuration.
  work is in progress to have a self-contained localhost self-test environment.

Assumption: test environment is a linux PC, either a laptop/desktop, or a server on which one
can start a browser.

0 - Install servers on localhost

Install a minimal localhost broker, configure test users.
with credentials stored for localhost::
   
   sudo apt-get install rabbitmq-server
   sudo rabbitmq-plugins enable rabbitmq_management
   echo "amqp://bunnymaster:MaestroDelConejito@localhost/" >>~/.config/sarra/credentials.conf
   echo "amqp://tsource:TestSOUrCs@localhost/" >>~/.config/sarra/credentials.conf
   echo "amqp://tsub:TestSUBSCibe@localhost/" >>~/.config/sarra/credentials.conf
   echo "amqp://tfeed:TestFeeding@localhost/" >>~/.config/sarra/credentials.conf

   cat >~/.config/sarra/default.conf <<EOT
   cluster localhost
   admin amqp://bunnymaster@localhost/
   feeder amqp://tfeed@localhost/
   role source tsource
   role subscribe tsub
   EOT

   sudo rabbitmqctl delete_user guest
   sudo rabbitmqctl add_user bunnymaster MaestroDelConejito
   sudo rabbitmqctl set_permissions bunnymaster ".*" ".*" ".*"
   sudo rabbitmqctl set_user_tags bunnymaster administrator
   cd /usr/local/bin
   sudo wget http://localhost:15672/cli/rabbitmqadmin 
   chmod 755 rabbbitmqadmin
   sr_audit --users foreground

   sudo rabbitmqctl change_password tsource TestSOUrCs
   sudo rabbitmqctl change_password tsub TestSUBSCibe
   sudo rabbitmqctl change_password tfeed TestFeeding
   
.. Note::

   Please use other passwords in credentials for your configuration, just in case.
   Passwords are not to be hard coded in self test suite.
   The users bunnymaster, tsource, tsub, and tfeed are to be used for running tests


The idea here is to use tsource, tsub, and tfeed as broker accounts for all
self-test operations, and store the credentials in the normal credentials.conf file.
No passwords or key files should be stored in the source tree, as part of a self-test
suite.

Perhaps in a separate window if you want to see output separately, a log message is 
printed for each GET the server answers. the setup script starts a trivial web server,
and defines some fixed test clients that will be used during self-tests::

   cd sarracenia/test
   . ./setup.sh

setup.sh will install configuration files for:

- two sr_shovel configurations to copy messages from from dd.weather.gc.ca
- an sr_winnow to remove duplicates from the shovelled sources.
- an sr_sarra to read the winnow output, and post fills mirrored on the trivial web server.
- an sr_subscribe to down load the files from the local server.

and starts this network of configurations running.

1- rerun basic self test::

   ./some_self_tests.sh

.. notes::

   FIXME: so far got first sr_credentials, sr_config, sr_consumer, sr_subscribe, sr_instances PASS.
   FIXME: working on sr_poster.
   FIXME: many tests refer to sites only accessible within EC zone.


2- Run integration tests.
   
   The check.sh script reads the log files of all the components started, and compares the number
   of messages, looking for a correspondence within +- 10%   It takes a few minutes for the 
   configuration to run before there is enough data to do the proper measurements.

   ./check.sh

   sample output::

   blacklab% ./check.sh
   initial sample building sample size 3421 need at least 1000 
   test 1: SUCCESS, shovel1 (3421) reading the same as shovel2 (3421) does
   test 2: SUCCESS, winnow (6841) reading double what sarra (3421) does
   test 3: SUCCESS, subscribe (3421) has the same number of items as sarra (3421)
   test 4: SUCCESS, subscribe (3421) has the same number of items as shovel1 (3421)
   blacklab% 



3- Run and check results for

   The following tests are self descriptive, but there is no obvious check of success. 
   On must examine the output of the command and determine if the result is as intended.

   test_sr_post.sh
   test_sr_watch.sh
   test_sr_subscribe.sh
   test_sr_sarra.sh

   Note :  some tests error ...
           in test_sr_sarra.sh ... there are lots of ftp/sftp connections
           so some config settings like sshd_config (MaxStartups 500) might
           might be requiered to have successfull tests.

   When done testing, run::
 
    . ./cleanup.sh
   
   which will kill the running web server.

4- making a local wheel and installing on your workstation

   in the git clone tree ...    metpx-git/sarracenia
   create a wheel by running

   either:

   python3 setup.py bdist_wheel

   it creates a wheel package under  dist/metpx*.whl
   then as root  install that new package

   pip3 install --upgrade ...<path>/dist/metpx*.whl

   or:
 
   debuild -us -uc
   sudo dpkg -i ../python3-metpx-...

   which accomplishes the same thing using debian packaging.


5- Have a sarracenia environment in your home...
   with copies of some of our operational settings ...
   correctly modified not to impact the operations.
   (like no "delete True"  etc...)
   And other sarra configurations ... try running sarra.

   sr start

   Watch for errors... check in logs... etc.

   Should you see things that are suspicious 
   
       a) stop the process
       b) run the process in debug and foreground
          <sr_program> --debug <configname> foreground
       c) check interactive output for hints



Building a Release
------------------

MetPX-Sarracenia is distributed in a few different ways, and each has it's own build process.
Packaged releases are always preferable to one off builds, because they are reproducible.

When development requires testing across a wide range of servers, it is preferred to make an alpha
release, rather than installing one off packages.  So the preferred mechanisms is to build
the ubuntu and pip packages at least, and install on the test machines using the relevant public
repositories.
 
To publish a release one needs to:

  - Set the version.
  - upload the release to pypi.org so that installation with pip succeeds.
  - upload the release to launchpad.org, so that the installation of debian packages
    using the repository succeeds.
  - upload the packages to sourceforge for other users to download the package directly
  - upload updated documentation to sourceforge.


Versioning Scheme
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Each release will be versioned as ``<protocol version>.<YY>.<MM> <segment>``

Where:

- **protocol version** is the message version. In Sarra messages, they are all prefixed with v02 (at the moment).
- **YY** is the last two digits of the year of the initial release in the series.
- **MM** is a TWO digit month number i.e. for April: 04.
- **segment** is what would be used within a series. 
  from pep0440:
  X.YaN   # Alpha release
  X.YbN   # Beta release
  X.YrcN  # Release Candidate
  X.Y     # Final release

Example: 

The first alpha release in January 2016 would be versioned as ``metpx-sarracenia-2.16.01a01``


Setting the Version
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Edit ``sarra/__init__.py`` manually and set the version number.
* Run ```release.sh```
* Edit ``sarra/__init__.py`` manually and add ``+`` to the end of the version number to differentiate continuing development on the master branch from the last release.

Each new release triggers a *tag* in the git repository.

Example::

    git tag -a sarra-v2.16.01a01 -m "release 2.16.01a01"
    
A convenience script has been created to automate the release process. Simply run ``release.sh`` and it will guide you in cutting a new release.


.. note::
   FIXME:  the adding of the + to master makes the current tree not the release,
   so need to expclicitly checkout the tag... no?  how does one 
   Can someone correct this:

   git checkout -t sarra-v2.16.01a01  ?


PyPi
~~~~

Assuming pypi upload credentials are in place, uploading a new release is a one liner::

    python3 setup.py bdist_wheel upload  

Note that the same version can never be uploaded twice. 

A convenience script has been created to build and publish the *wheel* file. Simply run ``publish-to-pypi.sh`` and it will guide you in that.

.. note:: 
   when uploading pre-release packages (alpha,beta, or RC) PYpi does not serve those to users by default.
   For seamless upgrade, early testers need to do supply the --pre switch to pip:

   pip3 install --upgrade --pre metpx-sarracenia

   on occasion you may wish to install a specific version:

   pip3 install --upgrade metpx-sarracenia==2.16.03a9



Launchpad
~~~~~~~~~

The process for publishing packages to Launchpad ( https://launchpad.net/~ssc-hpc-chp-spc ) involves a more complex set of steps, and so the convenience script ``publish-to-launchpad.sh`` will be the easiest way to do that. Currently the only supported releases are **trusty** and **xenial**. So the command used is::

    publish-to-launchpad.sh sarra-v2.15.12a1 trusty xenial


However, the steps below are a summary of what the script does:

- for each distribution (precise, trusty, etc) update ``debian/changelog`` to reflect the distribution
- build the source package using::

    debuild -S -uc -us
    
- sign the ``.changes`` and ``.dsc`` files::

    debsign -k<key id> <.changes file>

- upload to launchpad::

    dput ppa:ssc-hpc-chp-spc/metpx-<dist> <.changes file>
    
**Note:** The GPG keys associated with the launchpad account must be configured in order to do the last two steps.




Updating The Project Website
----------------------------

The MetPX website is built from the documentation in the various modules in the project. It builds using all **.rst** files found in **sarracenia/doc** as well as *some* of the **.rst** files found in **sundew/doc**.

Building Locally
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In order to build the HTML pages, the following software must be available on your workstation:

* `dia <http://dia-installer.de/>`_
* `docutils <http://docutils.sourceforge.net/>`_
* `groff <http://www.gnu.org/software/groff/>`_

From a command shell::

  cd site
  make


Updating The Website
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To publish the site to sourceforge (updating metpx.sourceforge.net), you must have a sourceforge.net account
and have the required permissions to modify the site.

From a shell, run::

  make SFUSER=myuser deploy 



Development Environment
-----------------------


Local Python 
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Working with a non-packaged version:

notes::

    python3 setup.py build
    python3 setup.py install


Windows
~~~~~~~

Install winpython from github.io version 3.4 or higher.  Then use pip to install from PyPI.



Conventions
-----------

Below are some coding practices that are meant to guide developers when contributing to sarracenia.
They are not hard and fast rules, just guidance.


When to Log
-----------

sr_log(7) messages should be emitted to indicate final disposition of the data itself, not 
any notifications or log messages (don't log log messages, it becomes an infinite loop!)
For debugging and other information, the local log file is used.  For example, sr_shovel does 
not emit any sr_log(7) messages, because no data is transferred, only messages.



Where to Put Option Documentation
---------------------------------

Most options are documented in sr_config(7), because they are common to many components.  Any options used 
by multiple components should be documented there.  Options which are unique to a single component, should
be documented in the man page for that component.

Where the default value for an option varies among components, sr_config(7) should indicate only that 
the default varies.  Each component's man page should indicate the option's default for that component.


Adding Checksum Algorithms
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To add a checksum algorithm, need to add a new class to sr_util.py, and then modify sr_config.py
to associate it with a label.  Reading of sr_util.py makes this pretty clear.
Each algorithm needs:
 - an initializer (sets it to 0)
 - an algorithm selector.
 - an updater to add info of a given block to an existing sum,
 - get_value to obtain the hash (usually after all blocks have updated it)

These are called by the code as files are downloaded, so that processing and transfer are overlapped.

For example, to add SHA-2 encoding::

  from hashlib import sha256

  class checksum_s(object):
      """
      checksum the entire contents of the file, using SHA256.
      """
      def __init__(self):
          self.value = '0'

      def get_value(self):
          self.value = self.filehash.hexdigest()
          return self.value

      def update(self,chunk):
          self.filehash.update(chunk)

      def set_path(self,path):
          self.filehash = sha256()

Then in sr_config.py, in the set_sumalgo routine::

      if flgs == 's':
          self.sumalgo = checksum_s()

Might want to add 's' to the list of valid sums in validate_sum( as well.

It is planned for a future version to make a plugin interface for this so that adding checksums
becomes an application programmer activity.
