sarracenia/doc/sr_log.7.rst, before:


========
 sr_log
========

------------------------------------------
Sarracenia v02 Log Message Format/Protocol
------------------------------------------

:Date: @Date@
:Version: @Version@
:Manual section: 7
:Manual group: MetPX-Sarracenia




SYNOPSIS
========

**AMQP Topic: <version>.log.{<dir>.}*<filename>**

**AMQP Headers:** *<series of key-value pairs>*

**Body:** *<first line>*

*<first line> == <date stamp> <srcpath> <relpath> <statuscode> <consuminghost> <consuminguser> <duration> <newline>*

*<rest of body is reserved for future use>*


DESCRIPTION
===========

Sources create messages in the *sr_post* format to announce file changes. Subscribers 
read the post to decide whether a download of the content being announced is warranted.  
Subscribers may provide information to sources by sending a log message indicating the result 
of processing a post.  The log message format, described by this specification, is the posting echoed 
back to the source with a few small changes. Please consult the sr_post(7) man page for
a full explanation of the fields which are shared with the posting format.

A sr_log message consists of four parts::

	AMQP TOPIC, First Line, Rest of Message, AMQP HEADERS.

AMQP TOPIC
==========

The topic of a log message is similar to sr_post except that the second sub-topic is 'log' rather than 'post'.


THE FIRST LINE 
==============

the first line of a message contains all mandatory elements of an sr_post(7) announcement.
There is a series of white space separated fields::

  *<date stamp>* : the date the posting was emitted.  
  Format: *YYYYMMDDHHMMSS.*<decimalseconds>*
  Note: The datestamp is always in UTC timezone.

*<srcpath>* : -- the base URL used to retrieve the data.

This should be the URL consumers will use to download the data.  Example of a complete URL:

 sftp://afsiext@cmcdataserver/data/NRPDS/outputs/NRPDS_HiRes_000.gif

In the case where the URL does not end with a path separator ('/'), the src path is taken to be the complete source of the file to retrieve.

 Static URL: sftp://afsiext@cmcdataserver/

If the URL ends with a path separator ('/'), then the src URL is considered a prefix for the variable part of the retrieval URL.

*<relativepath>* :  the variable part of the URL, usually appended to *<srcpath>*

The above are the fields taken from the sr_post(7) format.  There are additional fields in the sr_log:


*<statuscode>*  a three digit status code, adopted from the HTTP protocol (w3.org/IETF RFC 2616) 

As per the RFC, any code returned should be interpreted as follows:

	* 2xx indicates successful completion, 
	* 3xx indicates further action is required to complete the operation.
	* 4xx indicates a permanent error on the client prevented a successful operation.
	* 5xx indicates a problem on the server prevented successful operation.

.. NOTE::
   FIXME: need to validate whether our use of error codes co-incides with the general intent
   expressed above... does a 3xx mean we expect the client to do something? does 5xx mean
   that the failure was on the broker/server side?

The specific error codes returned, and their meaning are implementation dependent.
For the sarracenia implementation, the following codes are defined:

+----------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
+   Code   | Corresponding text and meaning for sarracenia implementation                               |
+==========+============================================================================================+
+   201    | Download successful. (variations: Downloaded, Inserted, Published, Copied, or Linked)      |
+----------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|   205    | Reset Content: truncated. file is shorter than originally expected (changed length         |
|          | during transfer) This only arises during multi-part transfers.                             |
+----------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|   205    | Reset Content: checksum recalculated on receipt.                                           |
+----------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|   304    | not modified (Checksum validated, unchanged, so no download resulted.)                     |
+----------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|   307    | insertion deferred (writing to temporary part file for the moment.)                        |
+----------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|   417    | Expectation Failed: invalid message (corrupt headers)                                      |
+----------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|   499    | Failure: Not Copied. SFTP/FTP/HTTP download problem                                        |
+----------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|   503    | Service unavailable. delete (File removal not currently supported.)                        |
+----------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|   503    | Unable to process: Service unavailable,                                                    |
+----------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|   503    | unsupported transport protocol specified in posting.                                       |
+----------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|   xxx    | message and file validation status codes are script dependent                              |
+----------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+



*<consuminghost>*  hostname from which the retrieval was initiated.

*<consuminguser>*  broker username from which the retrieval was initiated.

*<duration>*  how long processing took, in (decimal) seconds

*<newline>* signals the end of the first line of the message and is denoted by a single line feed character.


THE REST OF MESSAGE
===================

Use of only the first line of the AMQP payload is currently defined.  
The rest of the payload body is reserved for future use.

AMQP HEADERS 
============

In addition to the first line of the message containing all mandatory fields, optional 
elements are stored in AMQP headers (key-value pairs), included in messages when 
appropriate.   In addition to the headers specified in the sr_post(7) manual page, the 
following log-specific headers are defined:

message=<msgstring>

An English textual representation of the status code. as per w3.org/IETF RFC 2616 Status Code Definitions.



EXAMPLE
=======

::

 topic: v02.post.NRDPS.GIF.NRDPS_HiRes_000.gif
 first line: 201506011357.345 sftp://afsiext@cmcdataserver/data/NRPDS/outputs/NRDPS_HiRes_000.gif NRDPS/GIF/ 201 castor anonymous 0.0006767 
 headers: parts=p,457,1,0,0 sum=d,<md5sum> flow=exp13 message=Downloaded source=ec_cmc from_cluster=ddi.cmc.ec.gc.ca to_clusters=ddi.science.gc.ca,bunny.nrcan.gc.ca


   v02 - version of protocol
   post - indicates the type of message

        version and type together indicate the format of the message.

   ec_cmc - the account used to issue the post (unique in a network).

   ddi.cmc.ec.gc.ca - the originating cluster for that product

   ddi.science.gc.ca,bunny.nrcan.gc.ca - the destination clusters for that product

          -- blocksize is 457  (== file size)
          -- block count is 1
          -- remainder is 0.
          -- block number is 0.
          -- d - checksum was calculated on the body of the file.
          -- flow is an argument after the relative path.
          -- complete source URL specified (does not end in '/')
          -- relative path specified for

   pull from:
                sftp://afsiext@cmcdataserver/data/NRPDS/outputs/NRDPS_HiRes_000.gif

   complete relative download path:
                NRDPS/GIF/NRDPS_HiRes_000.gif

                -- takes file name from srcpath.
                -- may be modified by validation process.

   message download succeeded (201) from host castor, as user anonymous, and took 0.006767 seconds.



FURTHER READING
===============

http://metpx.sf.net - home page of metpx-sarracenia

http://rabbitmq.net - home page of the AMQP broker used to develop Sarracenia.


SEE ALSO
========

`sr_post(1) <sr_post.1.html>`_ - post announcements of specific files.

`sr_post(7) <sr_post.7.html>`_ - The format of announcement messages.

`sr_sarra(1) <sr_sarra.1.html>`_ - Subscribe, Acquire, and ReAdvertise tool.

`sr_subscribe(1) <sr_subscribe.1.html>`_ - the http-only download client.

`sr_watch(1) <sr_watch.1.html>`_ - the directory watching daemon.

Commit message:

Convert sr_log client, and sr_log format to sr_report. modify self-test accordingly.

sarracenia/doc/sr_log.7.rst, after:


=========
sr_report
=========

--------------------------------------------
Sarracenia v02 Report Message Format/Protocol
--------------------------------------------

:Date: @Date@
:Version: @Version@
:Manual section: 7
:Manual group: MetPX-Sarracenia




SYNOPSIS
========

**AMQP Topic: <version>.report.{<dir>.}*<filename>**

**AMQP Headers:** *<series of key-value pairs>*

**Body:** *<first line>*

*<first line> == <date stamp> <srcpath> <relpath> <statuscode> <consuminghost> <consuminguser> <duration> <newline>*

*<rest of body is reserved for future use>*


DESCRIPTION
===========

Sources create messages in the *sr_post* format to announce file changes. Subscribers 
read the post to decide whether a download of the content being announced is warranted.  
Subscribers may provide information to sources by sending a report message indicating the result 
of processing a post.  The report message format, described by this specification, is the posting echoed 
back to the source with a few small changes. Please consult the sr_post(7) man page for
a full explanation of the fields which are shared with the posting format.

A sr_report message consists of four parts::

	AMQP TOPIC, First Line, Rest of Message, AMQP HEADERS.

AMQP TOPIC
==========

The topic of a report message is similar to sr_post except that the second sub-topic is 'report' rather than 'post'.


THE FIRST LINE 
==============

the first line of a message contains all mandatory elements of an sr_post(7) announcement.
There is a series of white space separated fields::

  *<date stamp>* : the date the posting was emitted.  
  Format: *YYYYMMDDHHMMSS.*<decimalseconds>*
  Note: The datestamp is always in UTC timezone.

*<srcpath>* : -- the base URL used to retrieve the data.

This should be the URL consumers will use to download the data.  Example of a complete URL:

 sftp://afsiext@cmcdataserver/data/NRPDS/outputs/NRPDS_HiRes_000.gif

In the case where the URL does not end with a path separator ('/'), the src path is taken to be the complete source of the file to retrieve.

 Static URL: sftp://afsiext@cmcdataserver/

If the URL ends with a path separator ('/'), then the src URL is considered a prefix for the variable part of the retrieval URL.

*<relativepath>* :  the variable part of the URL, usually appended to *<srcpath>*

The above are the fields taken from the sr_post(7) format.  There are additional fields in the sr_report:


*<statuscode>*  a three digit status code, adopted from the HTTP protocol (w3.org/IETF RFC 2616) 

As per the RFC, any code returned should be interpreted as follows:

	* 2xx indicates successful completion, 
	* 3xx indicates further action is required to complete the operation.
	* 4xx indicates a permanent error on the client prevented a successful operation.
	* 5xx indicates a problem on the server prevented successful operation.

.. NOTE::
   FIXME: need to validate whether our use of error codes co-incides with the general intent
   expressed above... does a 3xx mean we expect the client to do something? does 5xx mean
   that the failure was on the broker/server side?

The specific error codes returned, and their meaning are implementation dependent.
For the sarracenia implementation, the following codes are defined:

+----------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
+   Code   | Corresponding text and meaning for sarracenia implementation                               |
+==========+============================================================================================+
+   201    | Download successful. (variations: Downloaded, Inserted, Published, Copied, or Linked)      |
+----------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|   205    | Reset Content: truncated. file is shorter than originally expected (changed length         |
|          | during transfer) This only arises during multi-part transfers.                             |
+----------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|   205    | Reset Content: checksum recalculated on receipt.                                           |
+----------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|   304    | not modified (Checksum validated, unchanged, so no download resulted.)                     |
+----------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|   307    | insertion deferred (writing to temporary part file for the moment.)                        |
+----------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|   417    | Expectation Failed: invalid message (corrupt headers)                                      |
+----------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|   499    | Failure: Not Copied. SFTP/FTP/HTTP download problem                                        |
+----------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|   503    | Service unavailable. delete (File removal not currently supported.)                        |
+----------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|   503    | Unable to process: Service unavailable,                                                    |
+----------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|   503    | unsupported transport protocol specified in posting.                                       |
+----------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|   xxx    | message and file validation status codes are script dependent                              |
+----------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+



*<consuminghost>*  hostname from which the retrieval was initiated.

*<consuminguser>*  broker username from which the retrieval was initiated.

*<duration>*  how long processing took, in (decimal) seconds

*<newline>* signals the end of the first line of the message and is denoted by a single line feed character.


THE REST OF MESSAGE
===================

Use of only the first line of the AMQP payload is currently defined.  
The rest of the payload body is reserved for future use.

AMQP HEADERS 
============

In addition to the first line of the message containing all mandatory fields, optional 
elements are stored in AMQP headers (key-value pairs), included in messages when 
appropriate.   In addition to the headers specified in the sr_post(7) manual page, the 
following report-specific headers are defined:

message=<msgstring>

An English textual representation of the status code. as per w3.org/IETF RFC 2616 Status Code Definitions.



EXAMPLE
=======

::

 topic: v02.report.NRDPS.GIF.NRDPS_HiRes_000.gif
 first line: 201506011357.345 sftp://afsiext@cmcdataserver/data/NRPDS/outputs/NRDPS_HiRes_000.gif NRDPS/GIF/ 201 castor anonymous 0.0006767 
 headers: parts=p,457,1,0,0 sum=d,<md5sum> flow=exp13 message=Downloaded source=ec_cmc from_cluster=ddi.cmc.ec.gc.ca to_clusters=ddi.science.gc.ca,bunny.nrcan.gc.ca


   v02 - version of protocol
   report - indicates the type of message

        version and type together specify the format of the message.

   ec_cmc - the account used to issue the post (unique in a network).

   ddi.cmc.ec.gc.ca - the originating cluster for that product

   ddi.science.gc.ca,bunny.nrcan.gc.ca - the destination clusters for that product

          -- blocksize is 457  (== file size)
          -- block count is 1
          -- remainder is 0.
          -- block number is 0.
          -- d - checksum was calculated on the body of the file.
          -- flow is an argument after the relative path.
          -- complete source URL specified (does not end in '/')
          -- relative path specified for

   pull from:
                sftp://afsiext@cmcdataserver/data/NRPDS/outputs/NRDPS_HiRes_000.gif

   complete relative download path:
                NRDPS/GIF/NRDPS_HiRes_000.gif

                -- takes file name from srcpath.
                -- may be modified by validation process.

   message download succeeded (201) from host castor, as user anonymous, and took 0.006767 seconds.



FURTHER READING
===============

http://metpx.sf.net - home page of metpx-sarracenia

http://rabbitmq.net - home page of the AMQP broker used to develop Sarracenia.


SEE ALSO
========

`sr_post(1) <sr_post.1.html>`_ - post announcements of specific files.

`sr_post(7) <sr_post.7.html>`_ - The format of announcement messages.

`sr_sarra(1) <sr_sarra.1.html>`_ - Subscribe, Acquire, and ReAdvertise tool.

`sr_subscribe(1) <sr_subscribe.1.html>`_ - the http-only download client.

`sr_watch(1) <sr_watch.1.html>`_ - the directory watching daemon.
