sarracenia/doc/sr_sender.1.rst, before:

==========
 SR_Sender 
==========

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Sends file from messages to remote server (option repost to remote broker)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

:Manual section: 1 
:Date: @Date@
:Version: @Version@
:Manual group: MetPX-Sarracenia

SYNOPSIS
========

**sr_sender** configfile foreground|start|stop|restart|reload|status

DESCRIPTION
===========

**sr_sender** is a program that Subscribes to file notifications, 
and sends the file to a remote server. It can also, if needed,
post a notification on a remote broker. It is used to send products
directly from a **pump**.

The notification protocol is defined here `sr_post(7) <sr_post.7.html>`_

**sr_sender** connects to a *broker* and subscribes to the notifications
of interest. On reception of a notification, it determines the location
of the file on the server it runs. Than it determines its remote directory
and name. Now being ready to deliver the file, it connects to the destination
server and delivers the file accordingly.  If the user sets up a **post_broker**
a notification is created and sent to that broker.

The primary purpose of this program is to replicate (or partially replicate) a pump
onto another that would not be allowed to acquire the products directly (PAZ, or 
firewalled network pump)...  or to provide direct file delivery to clients.
For this second objective, we added **metpx-sundew** like options and behaviors.

The **sr_sender** command takes two argument: a configuration file described below,
followed by an action start|stop|restart|reload|status... (self described).

The **foreground** action is different. It would be used when building a configuration
or debugging things. It is used when the user wants to run the program and its configfile 
interactively...   The **foreground** instance is not concerned by other actions, 
but should the configured instances be running it shares the same (configured) message queue.
The user would stop using the **foreground** instance by simply pressing <ctrl-c> on linux 
or use other means to kill its process.

In general, the options for this component are described by the
`sr_config(7) <sr_config.7.html>`_  page which should be read first.
It fully explains the option configuration language, and how to find
the option settings.

sr_sender is a standard consumer, using all the normal AMQP settings for brokers,exchanges,
queues, and all the standard client side filtering with accept, reject, on_message.


SOURCE NOTIFICATION OPTIONS
---------------------------

First, the program needs to set all the rabbitmq configurations for a source 
broker.  The broker option sets all the credential information to connect 
to the **AMQP** server 

**broker amqp{s}://<user>:<pw>@<brokerhost>[:port]/<vhost>**

::

      (default: None and it is mandatory to set it ) 

Once connected to an AMQP broker, the user needs to bind a queue
to exchanges and topics to determine the messages of interest.

QUEUE BINDINGS OPTIONS
----------------------

First, the program needs to set all the rabbitmq configurations for a source broker.
These options define which messages (URL notifications) the program receives:

- **exchange      <name>         (default: xpublic)** 
- **topic_prefix  <name>         (default: v02.post)**
- **subtopic      <amqp pattern> (default: #)**

as described in `sr_config(7) <sr_config.7.html>`_  

MESSAGE SELECTION OPTIONS 
-------------------------

 - **accept        <regexp pattern> (default: None)** 
 - **reject        <regexp pattern> (default: None)** 
 - **on_message            <script> (default: None)** 

as described in `sr_config(7) <sr_config.7.html>`_  

One has the choice of filtering using  **subtopic**  with only AMQP's limited 
wildcarding, and/or with the more powerful regular expression based  **accept/reject**  
mechanisms described below.  The difference being that the AMQP filtering is 
applied by the broker itself, saving the notices from being delivered to the 
client at all. The  **accept/reject**  patterns apply to messages sent by the 
broker to the subscriber.  In other words,  **accept/reject**  are client 
side filters, whereas  **subtopic**  is server side filtering.  

It is best practice to use server side filtering to reduce the number of 
announcements sent to the client to a small superset of what is relevant, and 
perform only a fine-tuning with the client side mechanisms, saving bandwidth 
and processing for all.

The user can provide an **on_message** script. When a message is accepted up 
to this level of verification, the **on_message** script is called... with 
the **sr_sender** class instance as argument.  The script can perform whatever 
you want... if it returns False, the processing of the message will stop 
there. If True, the program will continue processing from there.  

If a **post_broker** is set, **sr_sender** checks if the clustername given
by the **to** option if found in one of the message's destination clusters.
If not, the message is skipped.


SETUP 1 : PUMP TO PUMP REPLICATION 
----------------------------------

 - **mirror             <boolean>   (default: True)** 
 - **document_root      <directory> (None)** 

 - **destination        <url>       (MANDATORY)** 
 - **do_send            <script>    (None)** 
 - **kbytes_ps          <int>       (default: 0)** 
 - **post_document_root <directory> (default: '')** 

 - **to               <clustername> (default: None)** 
 - **on_post           <script>     (default: None)** 
 - **post_broker        amqp{s}://<user>:<pw>@<brokerhost>[:port]/<vhost>**
 - **url                <url>       (default: destination)** 

For pump replication, **mirror** is set to True (default)

**document_root** supplies the directory path that, when combined with the relative
one in the selected notification gives the absolute path of the file to be sent.
The defaults is None which means that the path in the notification is the absolute one.

The **destination** defines the protocol and server to be used to deliver the products.
Its form is a partial url, for example:  **ftp://myuser@myhost**
The program uses the file ~/.conf/sarra/credentials.conf to get the remaining details
(password and connection options).  Supported protocol are ftp,ftps and sftp. Should the
user need to implement another sending mechanism, he would provide the plugin script 
through option **do_send**.

On the remote site, the **post_document_root** serves the same purpose as the
**document_root** on this server.  The defaults is None which means that the delivered path
is the absolute one.

Now we are ready to send the product... For example, if the selected notification looks like this :

**20150813161959.854 http://this.pump.com/ relative/path/to/IMPORTANT_product**

**sr_sender**  performs the following pseudo-delivery:

sends local file [**document_root**]/relative/path/to/IMPORTANT_product
to    **destination**/[**post_document_root**]/relative/path/to/IMPORTANT_product
(**kbytes_ps** is greater than 0, the process attempts to respect this delivery speed... ftp,ftps,or sftp)

At this point, a pump to pump setup need needs to send the remote notification...
(If the post_broker is not set, there will be no posting... just products replication)

The selected notification contains all the right informations 
(topic and header attributes) except for url field in the
notice... in our example :  **http://this.pump.com/**

By default, **sr_sender** puts the **destination** in that field. 
The user can overwrite this by specifying the option **url**. For example:

**url http://remote.apache.com**

The user can provide an **on_post** script. Just before the message gets
publish to the **post_broker** and under the **post_exchange**, the 
**on_post** script is called... with the **sr_sender** class instance as argument.
The script can perform whatever you want... if it returns False, the message will not 
be published. If True, the program will continue processing from there.  


DESTINATION SETUP 2 : METPX-SUNDEW LIKE DISSEMINATION
-----------------------------------------------------

In this type of usage, we would not usually repost... but if the 
**post_broker** and **post_exchange** (**url**,**on_post**) are set,
the product will be announced (with its possibly new location and new name)
Lets reintroduce the options in a different order 
with some new ones  to ease explanation.


 - **mirror             <boolean>   (default: True)** 
 - **document_root      <directory> (None)** 

 - **destination        <url>       (MANDATORY)** 
 - **post_document_root <directory> (default: '')** 

 - **directory          <path>      (MANDATORY)** 
 - **on_message            <script> (default: None)** 
 - **accept        <regexp pattern> (default: None)** 
 - **reject        <regexp pattern> (default: None)** 

There are 2 differences with the previous case : 
the **directory**, and the **filename** options.

The **document_root** is the same, and so are the
**destination**  and the **post_document_root** options.

The **directory** option defines another "relative path" for the product
at its destination.  It is tagged to the **accept** options defined after it.
If another sequence of **directory**/**accept** follows in the configuration file,
the second directory is tagged to the following accepts and so on.

The  **accept/reject**  patterns apply to message notice url as above.
Here is an example, here some ordered configuration options :

::

  directory /my/new/important_location

  accept .*IMPORTANT.*

  directory /my/new/location/for_others

  accept .*

If the notification selected is, as above, this :

**20150813161959.854 http://this.pump.com/ relative/path/to/IMPORTANT_product**

It was selected by the first **accept** option. The remote relative path becomes
**/my/new/important_location** ... and **sr_sender**  performs the following pseudo-delivery:

sends local file [**document_root**]/relative/path/to/IMPORTANT_product
to    **destination**/[**post_document_root**]/my/new/important_location/IMPORTANT_product


Usually this way of using **sr_sender** would not require posting of the product.
But if **post_broker** and **post_exchange** are provided, and **url** , as above, is set to
**http://remote.apache.com**,  than **sr_sender** would reconstruct :

Topic:
**v02.post.my.new.important_location.IMPORTANT_product**

Notice:
**20150813161959.854 http://remote.apache.com/ my/new/important_location/IMPORTANT_product**


SUNDEW COMPATIBILITY OPTIONS
----------------------------

**destfn_script <script> (default:None)**

This option defines a script to be run when everything is ready
for the delivery of the product.  The script receives the sr_sender class
instance.  If you receive it as argument parent for example than any
modification to  **parent.remote_file**  will set a new destination filename

**filename <keyword> (default:WHATFN)**

From **metpx-sundew** the support of this option give all sorts of possibilities
for setting the remote filename. Some **keywords** are based on the fact that
**metpx-sundew** filenames are five (to six) fields strings separated by for colons.
The possible keywords are :


**WHATFN**
 - the first part of the metpx filename (string before first :)

**HEADFN**
 - HEADER part of the metpx filename

**SENDER**
 - the metpx filename may end with a string SENDER=<string> in this case the <string> will be the remote filename

**NONE**
 - deliver with the complete metpx filename (without :SENDER=...)

**NONESENDER**
 - deliver with the complete metpx filename (with :SENDER=...)

**TIME**
 - time stamp appended to filename. Example of use: WHATFN:TIME

**DESTFN=str**
 - direct filename declaration str

**SATNET=1,2,3,A**
 - cmc internal satnet application parameters

**DESTFNSCRIPT=script.py**
 - invoke a script (same as destfn_script) to generate the name of the file to write




**accept <regexp pattern> [<keyword>]**

keyword can be added to the **accept** option. The keyword is any one of the **filename**
tion.  A message that matched against the accept regexp pattern, will have its remote_file
plied this keyword option.  This keyword has priority over the preceeding **filename** one.

e **regexp pattern** can be use to set directory parts if part of the message is put
to parenthesis. **sr_sender** can use these parts to build the directory name. The
rst enclosed parenthesis strings will replace keyword **${0}** in the directory name...
the second **${1}** etc.



example of use:


      filename NONE

      directory /this/first/target/directory

      accept .*file.*type1.*

      directory /this/target/directory

        accept .*file.*type2.*

        accept .*file.*type3.*  DESTFN=file_of_type3

        directory /this/${0}/pattern/${1}/directory

        accept .*(2016....).*(RAW.*GRIB).*

A selected message from the first accept would be delivered unchanged to the first directory.
A selected message from the second accept would be delivered unchanged to the second directory.
A selected message from the third  accept would be renamed "file_of_type3" in the second directory.
A selected message from the forth  accept would be delivered unchanged to a directory
named  /this/20160123/pattern/RAW_MERGER_GRIB/directory   if the message would have a notice like :

**20150813161959.854 http://this.pump.com/ relative/path/to/20160123_product_RAW_MERGER_GRIB_from_CMC**

SEE ALSO
========

`sr_config(7) <sr_config.7.html>`_ - the format of configurations for MetPX-Sarracenia.

`sr_log(7) <sr_log.7.html>`_ - the format of log messages.

`sr_post(1) <sr_post.1.html>`_ - post announcemensts of specific files.

`sr_post(7) <sr_post.7.html>`_ - The format of announcements.

`sr_subscribe(1) <sr_subscribe.1.html>`_ - the download client.

`sr_watch(1) <sr_watch.1.html>`_ - the directory watching daemon.

`dd_subscribe(1) <dd_subscribe.1.html>`_ - the http-only download client.

Commit message:

Made reference to credentials.conf more explicit in all the command line component man pages.

sarracenia/doc/sr_sender.1.rst, after:

==========
 SR_Sender 
==========

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Sends file from messages to remote server (option repost to remote broker)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

:Manual section: 1 
:Date: @Date@
:Version: @Version@
:Manual group: MetPX-Sarracenia

SYNOPSIS
========

**sr_sender** configfile foreground|start|stop|restart|reload|status

DESCRIPTION
===========

**sr_sender** is a program that Subscribes to file notifications, 
and sends the file to a remote server. It can also, if needed,
post a notification on a remote broker. It is used to send products
directly from a **pump**.

The notification protocol is defined here `sr_post(7) <sr_post.7.html>`_

**sr_sender** connects to a *broker* and subscribes to the notifications
of interest. On reception of a notification, it determines the location
of the file on the server it runs. Than it determines its remote directory
and name. Now being ready to deliver the file, it connects to the destination
server and delivers the file accordingly.  If the user sets up a **post_broker**
a notification is created and sent to that broker.

The primary purpose of this program is to replicate (or partially replicate) a pump
onto another that would not be allowed to acquire the products directly (PAZ, or 
firewalled network pump)...  or to provide direct file delivery to clients.
For this second objective, we added **metpx-sundew** like options and behaviors.

The **sr_sender** command takes two argument: a configuration file described below,
followed by an action start|stop|restart|reload|status... (self described).

The **foreground** action is different. It would be used when building a configuration
or debugging things. It is used when the user wants to run the program and its configfile 
interactively...   The **foreground** instance is not concerned by other actions, 
but should the configured instances be running it shares the same (configured) message queue.
The user would stop using the **foreground** instance by simply pressing <ctrl-c> on linux 
or use other means to kill its process.

In general, the options for this component are described by the
`sr_config(7) <sr_config.7.html>`_  page which should be read first.
It fully explains the option configuration language, and how to find
the option settings.

sr_sender is a standard consumer, using all the normal AMQP settings for brokers,exchanges,
queues, and all the standard client side filtering with accept, reject, on_message.


SOURCE NOTIFICATION OPTIONS
---------------------------

CREDENTIAL OPTIONS
------------------

The broker option sets all the credential information to connect to the  **RabbitMQ** server

- **broker amqp{s}://<user>:<pw>@<brokerhost>[:port]/<vhost>**

::

      (default: amqp://anonymous:anonymous@dd.weather.gc.ca/ ) 

All sr_ tools store all sensitive authentication info is stored in the credentials file.
Passwords for SFTP, AMQP, and HTTP accounts are stored in URL´s there, as well as other pointers
to thins such as private keys, or FTP modes.

For more details, see: `sr_config(7) <sr_config.7.html/#credentials>`_


QUEUE BINDINGS OPTIONS
----------------------

First, the program needs to set all the rabbitmq configurations for a source broker.
These options define which messages (URL notifications) the program receives:

- **exchange      <name>         (default: xpublic)** 
- **topic_prefix  <name>         (default: v02.post)**
- **subtopic      <amqp pattern> (default: #)**

as described in `sr_config(7) <sr_config.7.html>`_  

MESSAGE SELECTION OPTIONS 
-------------------------

 - **accept        <regexp pattern> (default: None)** 
 - **reject        <regexp pattern> (default: None)** 
 - **on_message            <script> (default: None)** 

as described in `sr_config(7) <sr_config.7.html>`_  

One has the choice of filtering using  **subtopic**  with only AMQP's limited 
wildcarding, and/or with the more powerful regular expression based  **accept/reject**  
mechanisms described below.  The difference being that the AMQP filtering is 
applied by the broker itself, saving the notices from being delivered to the 
client at all. The  **accept/reject**  patterns apply to messages sent by the 
broker to the subscriber.  In other words,  **accept/reject**  are client 
side filters, whereas  **subtopic**  is server side filtering.  

It is best practice to use server side filtering to reduce the number of 
announcements sent to the client to a small superset of what is relevant, and 
perform only a fine-tuning with the client side mechanisms, saving bandwidth 
and processing for all.

The user can provide an **on_message** script. When a message is accepted up 
to this level of verification, the **on_message** script is called... with 
the **sr_sender** class instance as argument.  The script can perform whatever 
you want... if it returns False, the processing of the message will stop 
there. If True, the program will continue processing from there.  

If a **post_broker** is set, **sr_sender** checks if the clustername given
by the **to** option if found in one of the message's destination clusters.
If not, the message is skipped.


SETUP 1 : PUMP TO PUMP REPLICATION 
----------------------------------

 - **mirror             <boolean>   (default: True)** 
 - **document_root      <directory> (None)** 

 - **destination        <url>       (MANDATORY)** 
 - **do_send            <script>    (None)** 
 - **kbytes_ps          <int>       (default: 0)** 
 - **post_document_root <directory> (default: '')** 

 - **to               <clustername> (default: None)** 
 - **on_post           <script>     (default: None)** 
 - **post_broker        amqp{s}://<user>:<pw>@<brokerhost>[:port]/<vhost>**
 - **url                <url>       (default: destination)** 

For pump replication, **mirror** is set to True (default)

**document_root** supplies the directory path that, when combined with the relative
one in the selected notification gives the absolute path of the file to be sent.
The defaults is None which means that the path in the notification is the absolute one.

The **destination** defines the protocol and server to be used to deliver the products.
Its form is a partial url, for example:  **ftp://myuser@myhost**
The program uses the file ~/.conf/sarra/credentials.conf to get the remaining details
(password and connection options).  Supported protocol are ftp,ftps and sftp. Should the
user need to implement another sending mechanism, he would provide the plugin script 
through option **do_send**.

On the remote site, the **post_document_root** serves the same purpose as the
**document_root** on this server.  The defaults is None which means that the delivered path
is the absolute one.

Now we are ready to send the product... For example, if the selected notification looks like this :

**20150813161959.854 http://this.pump.com/ relative/path/to/IMPORTANT_product**

**sr_sender**  performs the following pseudo-delivery:

sends local file [**document_root**]/relative/path/to/IMPORTANT_product
to    **destination**/[**post_document_root**]/relative/path/to/IMPORTANT_product
(**kbytes_ps** is greater than 0, the process attempts to respect this delivery speed... ftp,ftps,or sftp)

At this point, a pump to pump setup need needs to send the remote notification...
(If the post_broker is not set, there will be no posting... just products replication)

The selected notification contains all the right informations 
(topic and header attributes) except for url field in the
notice... in our example :  **http://this.pump.com/**

By default, **sr_sender** puts the **destination** in that field. 
The user can overwrite this by specifying the option **url**. For example:

**url http://remote.apache.com**

The user can provide an **on_post** script. Just before the message gets
publish to the **post_broker** and under the **post_exchange**, the 
**on_post** script is called... with the **sr_sender** class instance as argument.
The script can perform whatever you want... if it returns False, the message will not 
be published. If True, the program will continue processing from there.  


DESTINATION SETUP 2 : METPX-SUNDEW LIKE DISSEMINATION
-----------------------------------------------------

In this type of usage, we would not usually repost... but if the 
**post_broker** and **post_exchange** (**url**,**on_post**) are set,
the product will be announced (with its possibly new location and new name)
Lets reintroduce the options in a different order 
with some new ones  to ease explanation.


 - **mirror             <boolean>   (default: True)** 
 - **document_root      <directory> (None)** 

 - **destination        <url>       (MANDATORY)** 
 - **post_document_root <directory> (default: '')** 

 - **directory          <path>      (MANDATORY)** 
 - **on_message            <script> (default: None)** 
 - **accept        <regexp pattern> (default: None)** 
 - **reject        <regexp pattern> (default: None)** 

There are 2 differences with the previous case : 
the **directory**, and the **filename** options.

The **document_root** is the same, and so are the
**destination**  and the **post_document_root** options.

The **directory** option defines another "relative path" for the product
at its destination.  It is tagged to the **accept** options defined after it.
If another sequence of **directory**/**accept** follows in the configuration file,
the second directory is tagged to the following accepts and so on.

The  **accept/reject**  patterns apply to message notice url as above.
Here is an example, here some ordered configuration options :

::

  directory /my/new/important_location

  accept .*IMPORTANT.*

  directory /my/new/location/for_others

  accept .*

If the notification selected is, as above, this :

**20150813161959.854 http://this.pump.com/ relative/path/to/IMPORTANT_product**

It was selected by the first **accept** option. The remote relative path becomes
**/my/new/important_location** ... and **sr_sender**  performs the following pseudo-delivery:

sends local file [**document_root**]/relative/path/to/IMPORTANT_product
to    **destination**/[**post_document_root**]/my/new/important_location/IMPORTANT_product


Usually this way of using **sr_sender** would not require posting of the product.
But if **post_broker** and **post_exchange** are provided, and **url** , as above, is set to
**http://remote.apache.com**,  than **sr_sender** would reconstruct :

Topic:
**v02.post.my.new.important_location.IMPORTANT_product**

Notice:
**20150813161959.854 http://remote.apache.com/ my/new/important_location/IMPORTANT_product**


SUNDEW COMPATIBILITY OPTIONS
----------------------------

**destfn_script <script> (default:None)**

This option defines a script to be run when everything is ready
for the delivery of the product.  The script receives the sr_sender class
instance.  If you receive it as argument parent for example than any
modification to  **parent.remote_file**  will set a new destination filename

**filename <keyword> (default:WHATFN)**

From **metpx-sundew** the support of this option give all sorts of possibilities
for setting the remote filename. Some **keywords** are based on the fact that
**metpx-sundew** filenames are five (to six) fields strings separated by for colons.
The possible keywords are :


**WHATFN**
 - the first part of the metpx filename (string before first :)

**HEADFN**
 - HEADER part of the metpx filename

**SENDER**
 - the metpx filename may end with a string SENDER=<string> in this case the <string> will be the remote filename

**NONE**
 - deliver with the complete metpx filename (without :SENDER=...)

**NONESENDER**
 - deliver with the complete metpx filename (with :SENDER=...)

**TIME**
 - time stamp appended to filename. Example of use: WHATFN:TIME

**DESTFN=str**
 - direct filename declaration str

**SATNET=1,2,3,A**
 - cmc internal satnet application parameters

**DESTFNSCRIPT=script.py**
 - invoke a script (same as destfn_script) to generate the name of the file to write




**accept <regexp pattern> [<keyword>]**

keyword can be added to the **accept** option. The keyword is any one of the **filename**
tion.  A message that matched against the accept regexp pattern, will have its remote_file
plied this keyword option.  This keyword has priority over the preceeding **filename** one.

e **regexp pattern** can be use to set directory parts if part of the message is put
to parenthesis. **sr_sender** can use these parts to build the directory name. The
rst enclosed parenthesis strings will replace keyword **${0}** in the directory name...
the second **${1}** etc.



example of use:


      filename NONE

      directory /this/first/target/directory

      accept .*file.*type1.*

      directory /this/target/directory

        accept .*file.*type2.*

        accept .*file.*type3.*  DESTFN=file_of_type3

        directory /this/${0}/pattern/${1}/directory

        accept .*(2016....).*(RAW.*GRIB).*

A selected message from the first accept would be delivered unchanged to the first directory.
A selected message from the second accept would be delivered unchanged to the second directory.
A selected message from the third  accept would be renamed "file_of_type3" in the second directory.
A selected message from the forth  accept would be delivered unchanged to a directory
named  /this/20160123/pattern/RAW_MERGER_GRIB/directory   if the message would have a notice like :

**20150813161959.854 http://this.pump.com/ relative/path/to/20160123_product_RAW_MERGER_GRIB_from_CMC**

SEE ALSO
========

`sr_config(7) <sr_config.7.html>`_ - the format of configurations for MetPX-Sarracenia.

`sr_log(7) <sr_log.7.html>`_ - the format of log messages.

`sr_post(1) <sr_post.1.html>`_ - post announcemensts of specific files.

`sr_post(7) <sr_post.7.html>`_ - The format of announcements.

`sr_subscribe(1) <sr_subscribe.1.html>`_ - the download client.

`sr_watch(1) <sr_watch.1.html>`_ - the directory watching daemon.

`dd_subscribe(1) <dd_subscribe.1.html>`_ - the http-only download client.
